#summary The "defaults" entity

= Introduction =

The "defaults" entity is a [UnderstandingEntities transient entity] provided when a call to the [getLoginAccount] method made.

== Example ==

{{{
{'_DEFAULTS': {'accountObjectId': 10100,
               'calendarPanelObjectIds': [180790,
                                          1195580,
                                          970990,
                                          465990,
                                          465970],
               'entityName': 'defaults',
               'isDST': 0,
               'notificationCC': '*********************',
               'secondsFromGMT': -18000,
               'timeZone': 'EST',
               'timeZoneName': 'US/Eastern'},
 'entityName': 'Account',
 'login': 'adam',
 'objectId': 10100,
 'version': 592}
}}}

Obviously not all of a user's many defaults are provided by the [defaults] entity,  only key values critical to the smooth integration of client applications with various functions of the server.  Most of the provided default values relate [Calendar to building calendar applications].

 * *calendarPanelObjectIs* - An array of ids for the [Contact] and [Team] objects that the user has selected via the OpenGroupware WebUI calendar drill-down view.
   * This array is a composite of the server's internal "scheduler_panel_accounts", "scheduler_panel_persons", "scheduler_panel_teams", and "scheduler_panel_resourceNames" defaults.  zOGI compresses these defaults into a single list of objectIds.
 * *isDST* - Indicates wether or not daylight savings time is _currently_ in effect in the user's timezone.
 * *secondsFromGMT* - The number of seconds the user's time zone _currently_ differs from GMT including an adjust for daylight savings time if is currently in effect.
 * *timeZone* - The user's timezone.
 * *timeZoneName* - A human readable description of the user's timezone.
 * *notificationCC* - The notification CC address specified by the user.  This value is a single e-mail address,  multiple comma separated values are *not* supported.  This value is supplied in addition to the *email1*, *email2*, and *email3* values of the user's [Contact] entity when a request to [getNotifications] is performed; providing the user with *four* notification addresses.

As of r945 (ZideStore r2119) support for the following defaults was added;  these attributes are intended primarily to facilitate the use of mobile device's via GroupDAV sync:
 * *appointmentWriteAccess* - An array of objectIds (integers) representing teams and/or accounts.  These objects are added to the write access list of an event create by ZideStore.
 * *appointmentReadAccessTeam* - A single objectId for a team (integer) used as the default read access for an event created via ZideStore's /Overview folder.

== Storing a user's defaults ===

A user can modify the specific defaults supported by the [defaults] entity via [putObject].

{{{
#!/usr/bin/env python
import xmlrpclib, time, sys, pprint

server = xmlrpclib.Server('http://{USER}:{PASSWORD}@{HOSTNAME}/zidestore/so/{USER}/')
defaults = { }
defaults['entityName'] = 'defaults'
defaults['timeZone'] = 'EST'
defaults['notificationCC'] = '***************'
defaults['calendarPanelObjectIds'] = [ 180790, 1112560, 195180, 1195580, 
                                       830020, 970990, 11530, 465950 ] 
pprint.pprint(server.zogi.putObject(defaults))
}}}

Only the defaults: *notificationCC*, *timeZone*, and *calendarPanelObjectIds* can currently be modified via zOGI.  The *timeZone* default *MUST* be a valid time zone abbreviation as defined by libFoundation.  The objects specified in *calendarPanelObjectIds* will be sorted out by type and applied to appropriate server side defaults so that this value will work in conjunction with the drill down view of WebUI.

The result of a successful call to [putObject] of a [defaults] entity will be as if the [getLoginAccount] method was called.

[http://code.google.com/p/zogi/ Home]