#summary The Enterprise Entity

See the documentation for the [putObject] method for an example of how to store an [Enterprise] to the server.  

*NOTE:* The special ACCESS key which contains an array of [acl] entities was added as of r430.

= Attributes =

 * *ACCESS* - This key contains an array of the [acl] entities applied to an object.  These key was added as of r430 (2007-06-25)
 * *ADDRESSES* - This key contains an array of the [address] entities associated with the [Enterprise].  
 * *COMPANYVALUES* - This key contains an array of the the [companyValue] entities associated with the [Enterprise].
 * *CONTACTS* - This key contains an array [assignment] entities for each of the [Contact] objects which have been assigned to the [Enterprise].
 * *FLAGS* - This key is a read-only array of strings which provides meta-data about the object.
   * *WRITE* - The requesting user has sufficient privileges to modify the object.
   * *READONLY* - The requesting user has no rights to modify the object.
   * *FAVORITE* - The object has been marked as a favorite by the user.
   * *SELF* - The user is the owner of the object.
   * *PRIVATE* - The private flag of the object has been set.
 * *LOGS* - This key contains an array of [logEntry] entities.
 * *OBJECTLINKS* - This key contains an array of the [objectLink] entities in which the [Enterprise] is either a target or source.
 * *PHONES* - This key contains an array of the [telephone] entities associated with the [Enterprise].  
 * *PROJECTS* - This key contains an array of the [Project] entities to which the [Enterprise] has been assigned.
 * *PROPERTIES* - The [objectProperty] entities attached to the [Enterprise].

= Example =

{{{
{'FLAGS': ['WRITE', 'SELF'],
 '_ACCESS': [{'entityName': 'acl',
              'operations': 'rw',
              'parentObjectId': 500380,
              'targetEntityName': 'Contact',
              'targetObjectId': 10160},
             {'entityName': 'acl',
              'operations': 'r',
              'parentObjectId': 500380,
              'targetEntityName': 'Team',
              'targetObjectId': 10003}],
 '_ADDRESSES': [],
 '_COMPANYVALUES': [{'attribute': 'email2',
                     'companyObjectId': 500380,
                     'entityName': 'companyValue',
                     'label': '',
                     'objectId': 500382,
                     'type': 3,
                     'uid': '',
                     'value': 'fred@backbone.local'}],
 '_CONTACTS': [{'entityName': 'assignment',
                'objectId': 500399,
                'sourceEntityName': 'Enterprise',
                'sourceObjectId': 500380,
                'targetEntityName': 'Contact',
                'targetObjectId': 10160}],
 '_LOGS': [{'action': '00_created',
            'actionDate': <DateTime '20070625T14:04:18' at b79b8c6c>,
            'actorObjectId': 10160,
            'entityName': 'logEntry',
            'entityObjectId': 500380,
            'message': 'Company created',
            'objectId': 500388},
           {'action': '05_changed',
            'actionDate': <DateTime '20070625T14:04:20' at b79b874c>,
            'actorObjectId': 10160,
            'entityName': 'logEntry',
            'entityObjectId': 500380,
            'message': 'company changed',
            'objectId': 500398}],
 '_OBJECTLINKS': [],
 '_PHONES': [{'companyObjectId': 500380,
              'entityName': 'telephone',
              'info': 'Old number',
              'number': '6163401149',
              'objectId': 500385,
              'realNumber': '6163401149',
              'type': '01_tel',
              'url': ''},
             {'companyObjectId': 500380,
              'entityName': 'telephone',
              'info': '',
              'number': '',
              'objectId': 500387,
              'realNumber': '',
              'type': '10_fax',
              'url': ''},
             {'companyObjectId': 500380,
              'entityName': 'telephone',
              'info': '',
              'number': '',
              'objectId': 500386,
              'realNumber': '',
              'type': '02_tel',
              'url': ''}],
 '_PROJECTS': [{'entityName': 'assignment',
                'objectId': 500395,
                'sourceEntityName': 'Enterprise',
                'sourceObjectId': 500380,
                'targetEntityName': 'Project',
                'targetObjectId': 500389}],
 '_PROPERTIES': [{'attribute': 'myStringAttribute',
                  'entityName': 'objectProperty',
                  'label': '',
                  'namespace': 'http://www.whitemiceconsulting.com/properties/ext-attr',
                  'parentObjectId': 500380,
                  'propertyName': '{http://www.whitemiceconsulting.com/properties/ext-attr}myStringAttribute',
                  'type': '',
                  'value': 'Hi there',
                  'valueType': 'string',
                  'values': ''}],
 'associatedCategories': '',
 'associatedCompany': '',
 'associatedContacts': '',
 'bank': '',
 'bankCode': '',
 'email': '',
 'entityName': 'Enterprise',
 'fileAs': '',
 'imAddress': '',
 'keywords': '',
 'name': 'Fred Inc.',
 'objectId': 500380,
 'ownerObjectId': 10160,
 'url': '',
 'version': 2}
}}}

[http://code.google.com/p/zogi/ Home]