#summary PluginData

The purpose of the [PluginData] entity is to facilitate the passing of custom and/or site-specific data from the server to the client within the zOGI transaction.  [PluginData] entities may be passed to the client in either the *PLUGINDATA* key of a specific object or within the response to [getObjectsById], [getObjectsById], or [searchForObjects] requests.

The [PluginData] entities' only requirement is that it possess an "entityName" attribute of "PluginData" and a "pluginName" attribute which contains a string of greater than six characters and less than 255 characters in length. A [PluginData] entity *MUST* not contain an "objectId" attribute.  If a content plugin creates more than one type of response then it is *RECOMMENDED* that these response types be distinguished via a string attribute named *dataType*.

==Example==

The org.opengroupware.coils.twitter plugin provides two different elements in a response;  a dataType of "Tweet" representing a Twitter message from the relevant account's timeline, and a "Tweeter" representing a Twitter account.
{{{
 {'created': 'Sat Dec 19 01:41:03 +0000 2009',
  'entityName': 'PluginData',
  'pluginName': 'org.opengroupware.coils.twitter',
  'dataType': 'Tweet',
  'id': '6815511180',
  'inReplyTo': {'UserId': '', 'id': '', 'screenName': ''},
  'screenName': 'whitemice',
  'text': 'Almost 40 and Toys-r-Us is still cool.  THEY HAVE A REMOTE CONTROL DRAGON!  It walks and roars.... awesome.',
  'userId': '15372406'},

 {'description': '',
  'entityName': 'PluginData',
  'pluginName': 'org.opengroupware.coils.twitter',
  'dataType': 'Tweeter',
  'id': '15372406',
  'location': 'Grand Rapids, MI',
  'screenName': 'whitemice',
  'timeZone': 'Eastern Time (US & Canada)',
  'url': 'http://www.whitemiceconsulting.com'}]
}}}


==Client Handling of PluginData entities==

Handling of [PluginData] entities is *OPTIONAL*,  a client *MAY* completely ignore [PluginData] entities.  In this case the client should simply not specify detail level zOGI_INCLUDE_PLUGINS (8192) so that plugin data will not be included in the response.

A zOGI client application presented with a [PluginData] entity should examine the "pluginName" attribute to determine if it can process/present the included information.  If the application does not recognize the value of "pluginName" the [PluginData] entity *MUST* be discarded.  

Any caching of of the [PluginData] payload should be handled by the specific application for which the data is intended.  General purpose zOGI client libraries/wrappers should do nothing more then decode the data structure to an appropriate type (1) and hand it off to the client application.

(1) Such as System.Collections.Hashtable for .NET or an array for PHP.

See also: [ApplicationAlert] and [UserAlert]

[http://code.google.com/p/zogi/ Home]